all right everybody welcome to the stellar open protocol discussion um
stellar open protocol discussion um thanks for being here thanks to all the
thanks for being here thanks to all the panelists
panelists just a reminder the goal of these
just a reminder the goal of these meetings is to talk about and plan for
meetings is to talk about and plan for changes to upcoming versions of the
changes to upcoming versions of the stellar protocol
stellar protocol specifically we go over core advancement
specifically we go over core advancement proposals caps for short
proposals caps for short which are open source specs that
which are open source specs that describe suggested new features designed
describe suggested new features designed to evolve the protocol to meet ecosystem
to evolve the protocol to meet ecosystem needs
needs so caps they have a life cycle they go
so caps they have a life cycle they go through various phases
through various phases discussion draft final comment period
discussion draft final comment period acceptance and implementation
acceptance and implementation before they're finalized added to a
before they're finalized added to a major release of stellar core
major release of stellar core and put forward to validators who
and put forward to validators who ultimately decide whether or not to
ultimately decide whether or not to accept the changes by upgrading the
accept the changes by upgrading the network
network so actually if all goes well today we
so actually if all goes well today we may attempt to move a cap from draft to
may attempt to move a cap from draft to final comment period
final comment period we'll see what happens very exciting
we'll see what happens very exciting procedural stuff there
procedural stuff there if we do we'll post a notice on the
if we do we'll post a notice on the stellar dev mailing list and there's a
stellar dev mailing list and there's a link to that in the meeting description
link to that in the meeting description uh at which point anyone who has
uh at which point anyone who has comments or questions or suggestions
comments or questions or suggestions has one week to respond before we decide
has one week to respond before we decide to either reopen the discussion
to either reopen the discussion or mark the cap as accepted so that's
or mark the cap as accepted so that's what happens if we move this cap into
what happens if we move this cap into final comment period
final comment period so last time we started the meeting with
so last time we started the meeting with personal introductions
personal introductions um but today i think we'll skip that
um but today i think we'll skip that just to keep things moving along
just to keep things moving along all the participants are listed in the
all the participants are listed in the event description so if you want to know
event description so if you want to know who's who just do a quick search
who's who just do a quick search or look at last last protocol meeting
or look at last last protocol meeting where a lot of the same participants
where a lot of the same participants there's also a q a box where you can
there's also a q a box where you can submit questions we probably won't go
submit questions we probably won't go through them one by one during the
through them one by one during the meeting but we do look at them
meeting but we do look at them they do inform our discussions and
they do inform our discussions and decisions so if you have a question
decisions so if you have a question about what we're discussing and again
about what we're discussing and again please about what we're discussing
please about what we're discussing feel free to raise it there so fair
feel free to raise it there so fair warning this is a technical discussion
warning this is a technical discussion about a specific proposal and if you
about a specific proposal and if you want to keep up i suggest reading
want to keep up i suggest reading through the cap
through the cap which is also linked to in the meeting
which is also linked to in the meeting description that will give you context
description that will give you context now today today we will continue our
now today today we will continue our discussion from the last meeting about
discussion from the last meeting about cap 35
cap 35 which defines a method for allowing an
which defines a method for allowing an issuer to claw back an asset
issuer to claw back an asset in order to support regulatory
in order to support regulatory requirements so it can be used for
requirements so it can be used for instance to recover assets that have
instance to recover assets that have been fraudulently obtained
been fraudulently obtained to respond to regulatory actions or to
to respond to regulatory actions or to enable someone who can improve their
enable someone who can improve their identity to recover an asset in the
identity to recover an asset in the event of key loss or theft
event of key loss or theft now remember i said we do actually pay
now remember i said we do actually pay attention to the qa
attention to the qa well based on some questions that came
well based on some questions that came in last time it seems like there's a bit
in last time it seems like there's a bit of confusion about this proposal
of confusion about this proposal so before we begin i just want to give a
so before we begin i just want to give a quick overview to attempt to clarify a
quick overview to attempt to clarify a few things
few things so based on questions that came in last
so based on questions that came in last time um
time um this is kind of what i i want to point
this is kind of what i i want to point out right
out right the proposal would introduce an optional
the proposal would introduce an optional feature for assets and it does that by
feature for assets and it does that by creating new authorization flags and new
creating new authorization flags and new operations to take advantage of them
operations to take advantage of them the goal is to add new functionality to
the goal is to add new functionality to stellar that would make it easy
stellar that would make it easy to issue regulated assets now these new
to issue regulated assets now these new flags will have no effect on accounts
flags will have no effect on accounts that already hold an asset
that already hold an asset that means if clawback is not enabled
that means if clawback is not enabled when you obtain an asset it can't be
when you obtain an asset it can't be enabled for you
enabled for you issuer can't just come in and change the
issuer can't just come in and change the rules after the fact
rules after the fact also when an asset has clawback enabled
also when an asset has clawback enabled that fact will be clearly visible on the
that fact will be clearly visible on the issuing account
issuing account and on the holders account in other
and on the holders account in other words a potential holder
words a potential holder will know in advance that an asset has
will know in advance that an asset has clawback enabled
clawback enabled they'll look at the asset they'll see
they'll look at the asset they'll see that it has clawback enabled and if they
that it has clawback enabled and if they decide to
decide to they can hold it and they do so fully
they can hold it and they do so fully informed with eyes wide open right
informed with eyes wide open right people opt into holding these assets and
people opt into holding these assets and that's a pretty
that's a pretty pretty important point um i i sort of
pretty important point um i i sort of mentioned all that just to clarify some
mentioned all that just to clarify some some some questions that came up last
some some questions that came up last time does anyone else before we dig in
time does anyone else before we dig in does anyone else have anything to add
are we just ready to go cool so
cool so cap 35. um the current state of this it
cap 35. um the current state of this it is in draft mode
is in draft mode uh the question that i think we're
uh the question that i think we're ultimately trying to get to is is it
ultimately trying to get to is is it ready
ready to move into final comment period
to move into final comment period pending acceptance
pending acceptance but there are a couple of changes that
but there are a couple of changes that have happened since last time
have happened since last time there are some bug fixes that address
there are some bug fixes that address comments and
comments and there's a new set trustline's flag set
there's a new set trustline's flag set trustline flags up
trustline flags up that allows an issuer to remove clawback
that allows an issuer to remove clawback the clawback flag so
the clawback flag so i i i think just open up does anyone
i i i think just open up does anyone have any comments or questions
have any comments or questions about the changes since we last met
about the changes since we last met so i i think that uh the first of all i
so i i think that uh the first of all i just want to congratulate the authors i
just want to congratulate the authors i think it's
think it's gotten a lot better um uh
gotten a lot better um uh i have kind of like i don't know three
i have kind of like i don't know three quick comments that like maybe
quick comments that like maybe are just changes you can make or or not
are just changes you can make or or not and then one like
and then one like point for more detailed discussion so i
point for more detailed discussion so i don't know how how
don't know how how you want to go through this if we should
you want to go through this if we should start raising points or
start raising points or go around robin or what why don't you
go around robin or what why don't you start with the three quick points
start with the three quick points let's just hear what those are okay so
let's just hear what those are okay so one again this is kind of trivial but in
one again this is kind of trivial but in this
this set trust line flags off the clear flags
set trust line flags off the clear flags and set flags or pointers and i was
and set flags or pointers and i was wondering
wondering why that is uh is that for future
why that is uh is that for future extensibility in case we have like
extensibility in case we have like multiple banks of flags or something we
multiple banks of flags or something we want to turn it into a union because
want to turn it into a union because otherwise
otherwise if you just have a an integer if you
if you just have a an integer if you zero then you're not setting any flags
zero then you're not setting any flags or clearing any flags
or clearing any flags so it seems like the optionality had was
so it seems like the optionality had was there's like redundant
there's like redundant mechanisms to not do anything i'm just
mechanisms to not do anything i'm just curious for the rationale
curious for the rationale so it matches uh what set options
so it matches uh what set options uh does right which is like if you if
uh does right which is like if you if you don't want to change clear options
you don't want to change clear options or
or like like you don't want to clear any
like like you don't want to clear any flags you can just set it to no
flags you can just set it to no right so i just follow that i don't i
right so i just follow that i don't i think your approach is fine as well
think your approach is fine as well uh i do think we there's an advantage in
uh i do think we there's an advantage in keeping it the same
keeping it the same as uh set options but sorry i thought
as uh set options but sorry i thought that instead options that actually
that instead options that actually actually
actually set the thing to a particular value
set the thing to a particular value whereas here we're actually setting or
whereas here we're actually setting or clearing bits
clearing bits so it's like a different so set options
so it's like a different so set options it is the same as set trustline flag so
it is the same as set trustline flag so i think you're thinking about allow
i think you're thinking about allow trust
trust that sets it oh right right uh so yeah
that sets it oh right right uh so yeah the goal here was to make it make it
the goal here was to make it make it similar to uh set options and that you
similar to uh set options and that you you control specific bits um
you control specific bits um okay well it's not it's not again this
okay well it's not it's not again this is pretty minor point i raise it it
is pretty minor point i raise it it sounds like there's a rationale so it's
sounds like there's a rationale so it's not
not not a huge deal um the
not a huge deal um the uh the other question so another
uh the other question so another question is
question is should we deprecate allow trust stop now
should we deprecate allow trust stop now that we have set
that we have set uh trustline flags up
i i think so i think we should uh but that would be just something to mention
that would be just something to mention like you know we don't have to like
like you know we don't have to like remove it or anything but we can just
remove it or anything but we can just deprecate it and like
deprecate it and like slowly you know eventually maybe like
slowly you know eventually maybe like you know way down the line remove some
you know way down the line remove some some of these obsolete
some of these obsolete operations um so third kind of
operations um so third kind of quick point or suggestion is um
quick point or suggestion is um in the set line trustline flags op
in the set line trustline flags op instead of having an asset code
instead of having an asset code should we think about putting an asset
should we think about putting an asset there
there and let me make the case so it's not cut
and let me make the case so it's not cut and dry but there are advantages
and dry but there are advantages obviously you might say well right now
obviously you might say well right now it's like completely redundant because
it's like completely redundant because the issuer should be implicit in
the issuer should be implicit in whatever the source account is for the
whatever the source account is for the operation
operation however i can imagine situations where
however i can imagine situations where down the line we might not want that to
down the line we might not want that to be the case and here's kind of two
be the case and here's kind of two scenarios where
scenarios where having the full uh asset in there would
having the full uh asset in there would would make this easier so one is maybe
would make this easier so one is maybe there's certain flags that like
there's certain flags that like the issuer can like add the flag or
the issuer can like add the flag or remove the flag but you can add the flag
remove the flag but you can add the flag or something so we actually want the
or something so we actually want the owner of the trust line to be able to
owner of the trust line to be able to change some of the flags and the issuer
change some of the flags and the issuer to be able to change other flags or
to be able to change other flags or maybe
maybe the owner can do it in one direction the
the owner can do it in one direction the issue or in another direction the second
issue or in another direction the second thing
thing which kind of comes back to this point
which kind of comes back to this point of feedback that i've gotten
of feedback that i've gotten a lot from talking to people which is
a lot from talking to people which is the annoying thing that if you issue a
the annoying thing that if you issue a bunch of assets
bunch of assets you uh and you want a fixed quantity
you uh and you want a fixed quantity that
that uh if you lock the um the high threshold
uh if you lock the um the high threshold of the account to known as high
of the account to known as high threshold you can no longer rotate the
threshold you can no longer rotate the keys that are used to like authorize
keys that are used to like authorize trust lines and so i don't think we want
trust lines and so i don't think we want to fix this today but
to fix this today but one thing that one can imagine down the
one thing that one can imagine down the line maybe is adding like a super user
line maybe is adding like a super user flag to like your trust line which
flag to like your trust line which allows you to
allows you to not only hold the asset but actually
not only hold the asset but actually authorize other people to hold the asset
authorize other people to hold the asset right i realized like
right i realized like maybe we do want to do this maybe we
maybe we do want to do this maybe we don't want to do this it means looking
don't want to do this it means looking at another
at another uh entry in the database when you're
uh entry in the database when you're transaction processing so there's
transaction processing so there's arguments against it but uh but but that
arguments against it but uh but but that would
would solve this problem you could like issue
solve this problem you could like issue an asset you could like create you could
an asset you could like create you could basically create a super user account to
basically create a super user account to to manipulate trust lines and then you
to manipulate trust lines and then you could completely lock the original
could completely lock the original account and then you could still rotate
account and then you could still rotate uh uh keys in the other account so
uh uh keys in the other account so just having the full asset in there
just having the full asset in there would allow us to do that because it
would allow us to do that because it would allow us this level of indirection
would allow us this level of indirection that a different account
that a different account could be the one uh authorizing at the
could be the one uh authorizing at the authorizing trust lines
authorizing trust lines and i just just to clarify you mean
and i just just to clarify you mean the asset code versus the full asset you
the asset code versus the full asset you mean the aztec code say usd
mean the aztec code say usd versus having usd colon issuer of that
versus having usd colon issuer of that asset
asset exactly exactly um and so
exactly exactly um and so the issuer is redundant because it's the
the issuer is redundant because it's the source account always but
source account always but i can imagine future situations where we
i can imagine future situations where we don't want to require that to be the
don't want to require that to be the case
case actually i would say i would support
actually i would say i would support that like originally actually in the
that like originally actually in the original proposal i didn't i didn't care
original proposal i didn't i didn't care for the clawback operation so to not
for the clawback operation so to not specify the
specify the full uh asset
full uh asset because at the time we only had our
because at the time we only had our trust
trust but if we're going to make the change to
but if we're going to make the change to this new adult trust
this new adult trust like we would also make the change to
like we would also make the change to clawback right and then now we end up
clawback right and then now we end up with like
with like this is completely open and and in the
this is completely open and and in the future we can easily
future we can easily make that without having to add new
make that without having to add new operations basically
operations basically so yeah i totally support that i just
so yeah i totally support that i just want to echo this
want to echo this i've been hearing from partners uh this
i've been hearing from partners uh this desire to basically delegate
desire to basically delegate um um delegate the ability to allow
um um delegate the ability to allow trust
trust to separate accounts um right now
to separate accounts um right now we you know we we uh we
we you know we we uh we promote this idea of everyone needs to
promote this idea of everyone needs to have access to the issue or account and
have access to the issue or account and a low threshold but there are a lot of
a low threshold but there are a lot of issues with this
issues with this so if the issuer can actually delegate
so if the issuer can actually delegate this authority to other accounts
this authority to other accounts uh then um i think that um
uh then um i think that um is great
cool so i have one more issue that probably is might require more
probably is might require more discussion so i'll maybe defer if other
discussion so i'll maybe defer if other people have quicker things we can come
people have quicker things we can come back to the longer running ones
back to the longer running ones i think uh i thought something i want to
i think uh i thought something i want to comment on this is i think this is
comment on this is i think this is really great the idea that we can we can
really great the idea that we can we can in the future possibly delegate who
in the future possibly delegate who could run these operations
could run these operations as opposed to being the issuer i think
as opposed to being the issuer i think that
that that relates in some ways back to a
that relates in some ways back to a previous conversation we had about
previous conversation we had about clawback and the fact that
clawback and the fact that um right now clawback is only going to
um right now clawback is only going to return
return the asset to the issuer and there's no
the asset to the issuer and there's no ability to specify a destination
ability to specify a destination because i think if we if we start
because i think if we if we start thinking and i think that decision was
thinking and i think that decision was completely fine if we think about
completely fine if we think about clawback being something only that the
clawback being something only that the issuer operates
issuer operates um because if they claw something back
um because if they claw something back they can always then issue the asset
they can always then issue the asset themselves again
themselves again but when we start talking about making
but when we start talking about making it flexible enough
it flexible enough so that a delegated account could cause
so that a delegated account could cause the clawback
the clawback then the clawback is going to return to
then the clawback is going to return to the issuer um so then
the issuer um so then then we have that no no in that case it
then we have that no no in that case it would have to go back to the
would have to go back to the source account right which would be this
source account right which would be this uh
uh this other account so i think it would
this other account so i think it would be consistent with
be consistent with the behavior
okay in a in a thick attack situation you would actually not be burning uh
you would actually not be burning uh assets in this situation you would
assets in this situation you would actually
actually uh be moving assets from the account
uh be moving assets from the account being called back to the
being called back to the this kind of uh you know type of account
this kind of uh you know type of account so is the clawback mechanism set up to
so is the clawback mechanism set up to claw back to the source account
claw back to the source account currently why it's implicit right it's
currently why it's implicit right it's implicit okay
implicit okay i mean we could add a destination
i mean we could add a destination account so imagine a situation where
account so imagine a situation where whenever you claw back
whenever you claw back you actually want to send it to some
you actually want to send it to some like arbitrator who's gonna like decide
like arbitrator who's gonna like decide whether this is just or not
whether this is just or not or something as a way to although
or something as a way to although really you'd want to kind of force that
really you'd want to kind of force that so maybe that's not such a good idea i
so maybe that's not such a good idea i think it's better to have it like
think it's better to have it like go back to the source icon if you're the
go back to the source icon if you're the issuer you end up burning it and then
issuer you end up burning it and then if you want to send it to an arbitrator
if you want to send it to an arbitrator that's actually the second operation and
that's actually the second operation and then you do have
then you do have clear kind of separation of like
clear kind of separation of like what is actually happening the history
what is actually happening the history so it sounds like we do we do need to
so it sounds like we do we do need to change the definition
change the definition in the cup slightly just to be more
in the cup slightly just to be more clear that the clawback is
clear that the clawback is returning the asset to the source
returning the asset to the source account and right now the source count
account and right now the source count is only the issuer
is only the issuer um but like because i think right now
um but like because i think right now this language that talks more is more
this language that talks more is more focused on clawback
focused on clawback burning the asset rather than moving it
burning the asset rather than moving it so so to be clear
so so to be clear like in in cap 35 would not be
like in in cap 35 would not be uh like it actually doesn't make sense
uh like it actually doesn't make sense to do clawback from a
to do clawback from a non-issue icon because you know you
non-issue icon because you know you can't actually
can't actually you don't have the right to do it uh but
you don't have the right to do it uh but i agree in terms of wording
i agree in terms of wording i can actually say so second right it
i can actually say so second right it will just work because
will just work because you know adding this functionality is
you know adding this functionality is actually uh adds a bunch of complexity
actually uh adds a bunch of complexity uh that i don't want to do in capital e5
uh that i don't want to do in capital e5 because you have like limits and all
because you have like limits and all that stuff that
that stuff that the shirt doesn't have so you have like
the shirt doesn't have so you have like new fader modes
new fader modes and so the suggestion is just to
and so the suggestion is just to slightly tweak the language so it's
slightly tweak the language so it's clear
clear that while we're at it i did notice one
that while we're at it i did notice one really nitpicky thing which is that um
really nitpicky thing which is that um this new operation that was added
this new operation that was added recently um
recently um set trust lines flag op does appear in
set trust lines flag op does appear in the semantics
the semantics but not in the abstract so while
but not in the abstract so while someone's going to tweet that language
someone's going to tweet that language my request is please add that to the
my request is please add that to the abstract portion of the cap
abstract portion of the cap i can take that
cool does does anything does anyone have anything else before we
anything else before we take here david's more potentially
take here david's more potentially rabbit hole question so i have i have
rabbit hole question so i have i have one comment
one comment related to the uh the suggestion to make
related to the uh the suggestion to make the asset code an asset
the asset code an asset we uh in in the original subtraction
we uh in in the original subtraction flags proposal there was there's a
flags proposal there was there's a similar
similar change allowed you allowed either the
change allowed you allowed either the issuer or the owner of the trust line to
issuer or the owner of the trust line to operate on the
operate on the operation or operate on the on the
operation or operate on the on the trustline flag and one concern that came
trustline flag and one concern that came up
up that john brought up was that he would
that john brought up was that he would he preferred
he preferred he would prefer it if we just use a
he would prefer it if we just use a different operation for
different operation for if the owner wanted to modify the
if the owner wanted to modify the trustline flag uh because he
trustline flag uh because he said you know it would be it would make
said you know it would be it would make it would be clearer than allowing this
it would be clearer than allowing this like this other this brand new
like this other this brand new functionality which we don't even allow
functionality which we don't even allow at the moment right uh i
at the moment right uh i i personally i i don't think it's
i personally i i don't think it's it matters that much i think it's fine
it matters that much i think it's fine if we if we enable the the owner
if we if we enable the the owner of the trustline to modify a flag in the
of the trustline to modify a flag in the future but that that is one
future but that that is one concern that he had so that's a decision
concern that he had so that's a decision we're not taking that decision today
we're not taking that decision today like that may be perfectly fine
like that may be perfectly fine all we're saying is we're gonna leave
all we're saying is we're gonna leave the flexibility not otherwise we'd be
the flexibility not otherwise we'd be making a decision today that we have to
making a decision today that we have to do it that way and we're leaving our
do it that way and we're leaving our options open
options open that was only one of the two uses that i
that was only one of the two uses that i could think of off the top of my head of
could think of off the top of my head of having a full asset instead of the asset
having a full asset instead of the asset code the other one being this delegation
code the other one being this delegation which
which both tomer and i guess have heard uh uh
both tomer and i guess have heard uh uh requests for from people okay yeah i
requests for from people okay yeah i think that makes sense
all right david i think we're ready for your bigger question okay
your bigger question okay so the so the bigger question
so the so the bigger question um is and i don't know what to do about
um is and i don't know what to do about this
this and maybe it's not that big a deal but
and maybe it's not that big a deal but the the
the the when you when you're clawing back a
when you when you're clawing back a claimable balance
claimable balance um the the problem is that that whether
um the the problem is that that whether or not you can clawback a claimable
or not you can clawback a claimable balance
balance depends on the person who created the
depends on the person who created the claimable balance
claimable balance not the person who can uh redeem it
not the person who can uh redeem it right who can claim it um and this seems
right who can claim it um and this seems like
like a little bit unfortunate in terms of uh
a little bit unfortunate in terms of uh for example you know how you
for example you know how you arbitrate a situation where like you
arbitrate a situation where like you know i i sent you a clamo balance and
know i i sent you a clamo balance and then
then like i couldn't claim it anymore so i
like i couldn't claim it anymore so i considered it was yours but it somehow
considered it was yours but it somehow got
got clawed back before you were able to
clawed back before you were able to claim the money
claim the money um and uh and maybe you had some special
um and uh and maybe you had some special arrangement where like you didn't have
arrangement where like you didn't have clawback or
clawback or or something um so so this is
or something um so so this is uh so this is bad and another thing
uh so this is bad and another thing where i think this would come a lot is
where i think this would come a lot is kind of
kind of at the end of some complicated protocol
at the end of some complicated protocol like a payment channel or something
like a payment channel or something where you kind of like at the end of the
where you kind of like at the end of the day i give you a bunch of assets and you
day i give you a bunch of assets and you give me a bunch of assets
give me a bunch of assets now it's sort of like uh i would expect
now it's sort of like uh i would expect one of those
one of those oh you know you both either both to
oh you know you both either both to happen or neither and now there's a
happen or neither and now there's a possibility that kind of the wrong one
possibility that kind of the wrong one could get clawed back like my funds
could get clawed back like my funds could get caught back
could get caught back because you were subject uh to clawback
because you were subject uh to clawback uh but you were the one who'd like
uh but you were the one who'd like created this claimable balance
created this claimable balance so given that the claimant you know
so given that the claimant you know given that you can't
given that you can't you don't necessarily know who can um
you don't necessarily know who can um well anyway so that that's the problem
well anyway so that that's the problem so should we do something about this and
so should we do something about this and do we care and if so you know what
do we care and if so you know what should we do i mean like to me that's
should we do i mean like to me that's that's that's actually why i wanted to
that's that's actually why i wanted to have this flag in the first place on the
have this flag in the first place on the on the balance entry because you know if
on the balance entry because you know if you have if you don't have
you have if you don't have a clawback enabled on the balanced entry
a clawback enabled on the balanced entry basically
basically it's uh immune to kind of interference
it's uh immune to kind of interference like that from
like that from for smart contracts yeah for the for the
for smart contracts yeah for the for the ones that do have that flag enabled i
ones that do have that flag enabled i agree
agree um uh as soon as you
um uh as soon as you as you touch it as an issuer you're
as you touch it as an issuer you're actually kind of blowing up a whole
actually kind of blowing up a whole smart contract and i
smart contract and i yeah but the problem is like it feels
yeah but the problem is like it feels like in most cases you'll be
like in most cases you'll be blowing up the wrong leg of a smart
blowing up the wrong leg of a smart contract
contract you don't know the problem is that you
you don't know the problem is that you don't know yeah
don't know yeah so you have to do a lot of like offline
so you have to do a lot of like offline type of
type of uh kind of
uh kind of work before actually doing this claim
work before actually doing this claim can you explain to me what the use case
can you explain to me what the use case would be in this situation
would be in this situation how you'd be using payment channel
how you'd be using payment channel payment channels
payment channels with claimable balances for assets that
with claimable balances for assets that had clawback enabled
had clawback enabled like is this something that there's that
like is this something that there's that a reasonable person would be using these
a reasonable person would be using these assets in that way sure i mean
assets in that way sure i mean this like whether or not you want to use
this like whether or not you want to use the payment channel on an asset should
the payment channel on an asset should be
be kind of independent of whether you can
kind of independent of whether you can claw it back or not
claw it back or not um but uh but the point is that like
um but uh but the point is that like most in most of these protocols you kind
most in most of these protocols you kind of assume that the funds are yours once
of assume that the funds are yours once you can
you can claim them um and we're now slightly
claim them um and we're now slightly changing that
changing that situation and that like they they could
situation and that like they they could still get clawed back because of
still get clawed back because of something bad that the issuer did even
something bad that the issuer did even if the recipient
if the recipient has some kind of a non-clawback
has some kind of a non-clawback agreement with the issuer
that would be on the recipient's account right
right on their trustline flags so like the
on their trustline flags so like the sender and the recipient both have
sender and the recipient both have this clawback flag they can be set or
this clawback flag they can be set or onset in their trust line
onset in their trust line so if the recipient doesn't have it set
so if the recipient doesn't have it set in their trust line then they know ahead
in their trust line then they know ahead of time that
of time that it can't be changed for them um right
it can't be changed for them um right except that
except that except that they're the the claimable
except that they're the the claimable balance that they can claim
balance that they can claim can be uh clawed back uh unless i'm
can be uh clawed back uh unless i'm misunderstanding
right and only if it has the flag only if the sender had the flag enabled right
if the sender had the flag enabled right so in a way it's like you wish that the
so in a way it's like you wish that the policy had to do with the recipient
policy had to do with the recipient rather than the sender i guess
rather than the sender i guess is is kind of what i'm saying but but
is is kind of what i'm saying but but that also doesn't work right because you
that also doesn't work right because you don't want to
don't want to just be you i shouldn't be able to like
just be you i shouldn't be able to like protect my funds by like sending them
protect my funds by like sending them all making a bunch of
all making a bunch of you know claimable balances that people
you know claimable balances that people can't claim and then reclaiming them
can't claim and then reclaiming them afterwards so i don't know what the
afterwards so i don't know what the solution is it just
solution is it just it seems like it's something slightly uh
it seems like it's something slightly uh annoying recipients
annoying recipients recipients also don't have to exist at
recipients also don't have to exist at the time the claim will balance yeah
the time the claim will balance yeah exactly
exactly exactly so there's a lot but there's no
exactly so there's a lot but there's no guarantee we even have that information
i think the only the only things we can guarantee exists on the network when the
guarantee exists on the network when the claim balance is created is that the
claim balance is created is that the issuer
issuer exists and the the account holder exists
exists and the the account holder exists the original account the sender exists
the original account the sender exists um and i think if we were to choose from
um and i think if we were to choose from one or the other where to get that
one or the other where to get that information from the sender is better
information from the sender is better because if we use the issuer then
because if we use the issuer then if the issuer enables clawback then a
if the issuer enables clawback then a sender
sender whenever they create a claim or balance
whenever they create a claim or balance it's become going to become clawback
it's become going to become clawback enabled even though they maybe have an
enabled even though they maybe have an agreement with the issuer
agreement with the issuer that when they hold the asset it isn't
that when they hold the asset it isn't can't be called back
so i guess my question is what what does this
this where does this conversation lead what
where does this conversation lead what what action needs to be
what action needs to be taken to sort of resolve this issue
taken to sort of resolve this issue i mean you know maybe we can't resolve
i mean you know maybe we can't resolve it right maybe it's just
it right maybe it's just um uh yeah
um uh yeah you know it's not there there doesn't
you know it's not there there doesn't seem to be any ideal solution here
seem to be any ideal solution here and you know i agree that it's it's kind
and you know i agree that it's it's kind of at least as reasonable to have
of at least as reasonable to have the flag and a claimable balance be
the flag and a claimable balance be based on the sender than
based on the sender than to have it be based on the issuer so if
to have it be based on the issuer so if the given that those are
the given that those are kind of the only two options i can see
kind of the only two options i can see on the table
on the table um maybe we just live with it
um maybe we just live with it the spec currently specify using the
the spec currently specify using the sender
sender i can't remember it is yeah in
i can't remember it is yeah in everything the
everything the yeah okay so that's the standard because
yeah okay so that's the standard because that way like
that way like like the reason i wanted that in the
like the reason i wanted that in the first place was because if you're
first place was because if you're going to engage in a payment channel
going to engage in a payment channel let's say at the beginning like you can
let's say at the beginning like you can actually look at those flags
actually look at those flags that people have on their trust lines
that people have on their trust lines and decide at this point
and decide at this point you actually want to basically take the
you actually want to basically take the risk or not
risk or not uh in that payment channel right
uh in that payment channel right if people don't have the flag set you
if people don't have the flag set you know that basically you're taking a zero
know that basically you're taking a zero risk
risk if you have the flag then you have a
if you have the flag then you have a question
question um i don't see but the flag can change
um i don't see but the flag can change like during the execution of a protocol
like during the execution of a protocol right so you no no no no
right so you no no no no that's the point is that if the flag
that's the point is that if the flag once you have if you have the flag
once you have if you have the flag not set people cannot uh like issue i
not set people cannot uh like issue i cannot set it back
it can only be on set okay that's a that makes it
makes it that's that's why this this works right
that's that's why this this works right like if we are allowing the issuer to
like if we are allowing the issuer to to basically renege on the on this it
to basically renege on the on this it also breaks that so that
yeah so so anyone would be up they would understand
understand this fact they would opt in to choosing
this fact they would opt in to choosing to use the asset in that way
to use the asset in that way again eyes wide open yeah like but here
again eyes wide open yeah like but here the important bit is like you can
the important bit is like you can imagine having
imagine having some accounts on the network that don't
some accounts on the network that don't have that flag enabled even though it is
have that flag enabled even though it is uh
uh like the issuer has the callback enabled
like the issuer has the callback enabled but they're like
but they're like you know maybe privileged accounts or
you know maybe privileged accounts or something like you know better cheers
something like you know better cheers basically of accounts that can actually
basically of accounts that can actually engage into those uh payment channels
engage into those uh payment channels or whatever i like to yeah i agree that
or whatever i like to yeah i agree that it's not ideal because
it's not ideal because like really what you would want is like
like really what you would want is like any
any any asset i mean any account should be
any asset i mean any account should be able to
able to to participate to payment channels but
to participate to payment channels but like
like the thing is that as soon as you you
the thing is that as soon as you you potentially have this third party kind
potentially have this third party kind of interfering
of interfering uh it gets really complicated
uh it gets really complicated uh i don't see yeah so i i can basically
uh i don't see yeah so i i can basically live with it i think you guys have
live with it i think you guys have convinced me that this is probably fine
convinced me that this is probably fine and uh anything else is going to be
and uh anything else is going to be worse
worse i i think i also want to mention i think
i i think i also want to mention i think this is a limitation of claimable
this is a limitation of claimable balances in general in the
balances in general in the claimant balances the only the only
claimant balances the only the only place they can go
place they can go is into the account is into a claim
is into the account is into a claim is into the an account that's defined as
is into the an account that's defined as a claimant
a claimant um and so for their use in smart
um and so for their use in smart contracts there's that limitation
contracts there's that limitation already
already um and may like maybe there's room for
um and may like maybe there's room for improvement
improvement in the future for claimable balances to
in the future for claimable balances to have other destinations
have other destinations so you know you could take funds from a
so you know you could take funds from a claim balance and move them into another
claim balance and move them into another claim will balance all into multiple
claim will balance all into multiple claimable balances and if you know if
claimable balances and if you know if that is ever a possibility in the future
that is ever a possibility in the future you know that opens up more flexibility
you know that opens up more flexibility for
for smart contracts um because
smart contracts um because um you know then we can start talking
um you know then we can start talking about you know they can inherit
about you know they can inherit the attributes of their previous kind of
the attributes of their previous kind of balances or different things like that
balances or different things like that um but that's i think that's like that's
um but that's i think that's like that's off topic a bit but
off topic a bit but i think there is some limitation that
i think there is some limitation that we're inheriting from the fact that
we're inheriting from the fact that claimable balances
claimable balances only have accounts as a destination
okay well i'm satisfied nothing needs to change in the in the cap
change in the in the cap basically after this so the one there's
basically after this so the one there's basically one minor change which is to
basically one minor change which is to replace the asset
replace the asset code with that oh sorry i meant for the
code with that oh sorry i meant for the last part of the decision
last part of the decision sounds like for the other one we agreed
sounds like for the other one we agreed that we'll add a note that
that we'll add a note that allow trust stop is deprecated and we
allow trust stop is deprecated and we will um
will um we will add to turn the ass in two
we will add to turn the ass in two places we'll turn an asset code into an
places we'll turn an asset code into an asset i guess right
that's correct i think those are the changes that we've suggested making does
changes that we've suggested making does it does that seem accurate to everyone
it does that seem accurate to everyone else
yeah and if so those feel like pretty correct me if i'm wrong sid for instance
correct me if i'm wrong sid for instance those feel like pretty minor
those feel like pretty minor changes to execute is that correct yeah
changes to execute is that correct yeah they should be
they should be like that like we could move this into
like that like we could move this into final comment period pinning those
final comment period pinning those changes
changes does that seem correct yeah
all right guys i i say we uh i say we move this from draft and final comment
move this from draft and final comment period
period um i kind of want to do like a formal
um i kind of want to do like a formal process here we have to say i or
process here we have to say i or nay um so let's do that let's do that
nay um so let's do that let's do that uh nico
yes sid yes david
chalmer yes eric yep is that uh is that everybody
yep is that uh is that everybody i think that's everybody who's on this
i think that's everybody who's on this call guys i actually have a gavel
call guys i actually have a gavel so i'm going to strike this gavel and
so i'm going to strike this gavel and can you see it and
can you see it and and now it's officially moved into uh
and now it's officially moved into uh final comment period
final comment period i happen to have that gavel in this room
i happen to have that gavel in this room full of junk i did not go buy it
full of junk i did not go buy it especially for this i promise um and so
especially for this i promise um and so that's mostly it i mean the only other
that's mostly it i mean the only other thing that i guess we could do
thing that i guess we could do uh which we can also decide not to do is
uh which we can also decide not to do is we could talk a bit about where this cap
we could talk a bit about where this cap is because i know that some
is because i know that some implementation has already been done
implementation has already been done um do you want to walk us does anyone
um do you want to walk us does anyone want to walk us through that or should
want to walk us through that or should we just
we just be happy with this sort of procedural
be happy with this sort of procedural vote that we just had and
vote that we just had and close the meeting i think that's
close the meeting i think that's probably enough for now
probably enough for now like in the context of this meeting okay
like in the context of this meeting okay cool meetings that end early are great
cool meetings that end early are great there's
there's just no reason to stretch out to the
just no reason to stretch out to the full time if you're done
full time if you're done okay cool so we're going to move into
okay cool so we're going to move into final comment period pinning those
final comment period pinning those changes so when they're done i will send
changes so when they're done i will send out the official notice on the stellar
out the official notice on the stellar dev
dev list and again anyone who's watching
list and again anyone who's watching that gives you a week
that gives you a week to for final suggestions we can reopen
to for final suggestions we can reopen the discussion if it seems necessary
the discussion if it seems necessary but this is final comment period pending
but this is final comment period pending acceptance
acceptance great well we answer the questions we
great well we answer the questions we move this along
move this along i think we're done everybody feel good
i think we're done everybody feel good great yeah thanks thanks everyone for
great yeah thanks thanks everyone for coming thanks everyone for watching
coming thanks everyone for watching see you next time cheers
you